---
title: "Software Ideas"
meta_content: "Programs Nate Eagleson wishes existed."
template: "essay.html.tmpl"
---

When I find myself wishing for a program and unable to find it, I put it in
this list.

When I discover one of these already exists, I move it to my [list of useful
programs](https://github.com/NateEag/useful-programs).

When I (help) get one to a usable point, I move it to my [list of
projects](/software/projects.html).


## The Audio Engine

I would love to have an open-source, real-time, auto-scaling audio DSP engine
for general-purpose hardware - something like an open-source
[Kyma](http://kyma.symbolicsound.com/) for arbitrary hardware. Discovering this
already exists would be spectacular, but since I have not yet found it, I [work
towards building it](https://github.com/NateEag/audio-engine).


## A Better (D)VCS

Git is a powerful piece of software with a poor user interface and a few
shortcomings.

I chip away at [designing a better VCS](https://github.com/NateEag/next-vcs).

Note that before I started thinking about designing a new DVCS, I planned an
[improved hook manager](https://github.com/NateEag/githooks.d) and a
[distributed code review system](https://github.com/NateEag/git-revue) for Git.


## track-time

I occasionally use [Watson](https://github.com/TailorDev/Watson) to keep track
of how I spend my time, but I think a significantly better command-line
interface for the job [is possible](https://github.com/NateEag/track-time).


## media-list

I care a lot about art in various media, and have in spare moments here and
there mapped out a data model for tracking works and makers I'm interested in,
and the times I've experienced those works.

Think of it as an [unfinished, over-engineered todo list for experiencing
artwork](https://github.com/NateEag/media-list).

It's more a playground for practicing data modeling and experimenting with
software design than it is a focused product.


## Open Source Fitness Tracker

I am a firm believer in the value of data, and I'm intrigued by the idea of
keeping a record of things like my heart rate and physical movement for
analysis and better understanding of my health.

I am not at all interested in generating that data and handing it over to a
company specializing in health analytics, as the day will come when that data
is either sold to a health insurance company to help them determine my rates,
or just be part of a massive data breach (and who knows how it will be abused
then).

To that end, I would like an open-source phone app that can save the constant
stream of data generated by a fitness tracker and sync it to a larger storage
mechanism.

In practice, that likely means buying a fitness tracker that speaks the [ANT+
protocol](https://www.thisisant.com) and finding or building a program that can
record the streams of sensor data. In practice, the two device profiles that
would actually be useful for physical fitness are probably heart rate and step
count, since for focused walking / running / cycling, you can use GPX tracks to
generate speed and distance.

It would be nice to be able to get raw accelerometer data, which I believe is
what's usually used for sleep tracking, but I don't see a mechanism that would
make it possible at present.

In tandem with this, I would like some tools that can analyze the data locally
on my system to show me the big-picture trends.
