Just starting a list of media I want to read / watch / see / listen to at some
point.


## Almost The Truth

Documentary about Monty Python on Netflix.


## The Book of the New Sun

A book that's apparently either fantasy / SF, recommended by Brent Hughes,
whose taste often aligns with mine.


## Upload

Amazon original. Not sure if it'll actually be good, but the trailer looked
promising. Dark comedy about what the Singularity would actually be like (since
it would be run by Silicon Valley venture capitalists).


## The New Jim Crow

A book proposing that the United States has used mass incarceration to
effectively reproduce Jim Crow laws by labeling most black men as criminals,
then removing their rights by the justification that they are criminals.

https://newjimcrow.com/about


## Neverending Story

Classic 80s fantasy movie I've never seen.


## Fatman

A silly-looking Christmas action movie, in which Santa takes on a contract
manufacturing hardware for the US military and a spoiled rich kid who got coal
takes out a contract on Santa.


## Fisherman's Friends

What appears to be a feel-good comedy about a record company talent scout
pranked into recruiting some rural Welsh fishing villagers for an album deal.
Apparently somewhat based on a true story.


## A Quiet Place

A thriller / horror movie by John Krazinski, featuring Emily Blunt and John
Krazinski as the parents in a family trying to survive while hunted by
creatures that kill any sound they hear.

Reviews say it's scary but it sounds more like the "Signs" sort of tense, not
the horror/gore/nightmare tension stripe of horror that I can't stand.


## The Free Design

Acapella group from the 60s / 70s that did a lovely little number called "Love
You" that showed up in the credits of Stranger Than Fiction.

I'd really like to give the rest of their work a run-through to see what I
think of it.


## Showbread

Bob Stouffer mentioned the track "I'm Afraid That I Am Me" from their album
"Cancer," and I was surprised how much I enjoyed it.

So, I should look into them at some point.


## The Mountain Goats

Hannah recommended them, specifically their album "The Life of the World to
Come".


## Haley Reinhart

A _killer_ jazz singer who did an amazing rendition of Radiohead's "Creep" with
Postmodern Jukebox.


## THPS 1 & 2 on Switch

I played THPS 2 obsessively in my late teens and early twenties.

Not sure I want to have the game again, but it is tempting.


## Thumper

An abstract horror rhythm game. Looks like it may not be quite my style of
rhythm game, but as a rhythm game guy, it might be worth trying just to see
what it brings to the genre.


## Overload

A spiritual sequel to the Descent series of games, made by a lot of the people
who worked on the originals.

https://playoverload.com/

I'm not sure I'd ever actually take the time to play it at this point, but I
sure do have fond memories, and was overwhelmed by a wave of nostalgia when I
saw that it exists.


## Rattle 'n' Hum

A documentary on U2 recommended by Lance.


## High SCore

A documentary on the history of video games, also recommended by Lance.
