I am not a scientist.

However, the scientific method is very useful to me as a software developer.

I have Opinions about it.

I should try to explicate them here, perhaps.


## Epistemology

First, science is fundamentally fallacious. It's a huge exercise in post hoc
ergo propter hoc.

Fallacies do not automatically yield wrong results. They just do not prove
things.

It is a terrible methodology for proving universal statements. "We've never seen
a counter-example" is not a sound proof.

That said, as one who did a lot of math in college, proofs are not easy to come
by, can turn out to be wrong even after they've been accepted for centuries,
and when correct may not say what you think they do. See Donald Knuth's quote
about "beware the above code; I have only proven it correct, not tested it."

Fallacies are often really useful tools for thinking, in fact - just don't make
the mistake of thinking they prove things.

So, science is about pragmatic experimentation and finding practically-usable
guidelines for predicting things ("Under what circumstances will this bridge
collapse?").


## You Are Not A Random Sample

TODO Restate this compactly. It's a quick stab at saving an idea that drifted
through my head.

I have seen people try to live their lives using scientific guidelines. I do it
myself a lot of the time.

For things we understand pretty well, like Newtonian physics - great. Those
predictions work reliably in most situations and we know pretty well the
circumstances where they don't.

A lot of recent studies focus on complex unclear things like human behavioral
impulses or health consequences of choices.

Those are worth studying, but when you have statistics about the herd, they
tell you about the herd, not an individual.

They do *not* have reliable predictive power when looking at a specific
individual, namely you.

From a decision theory standpoint, you should *not* model yourself as one out
of a thousand - you are you. Generalizing from "what a randomly-selected member
of this population should do" to "What should I do" is often a mistake.

If you have no other data, then yes, let the studies guide you. It's probably
better than ignoring them.

However, if you can gather data about your specific biology or mindset or risk
factors, you should massively prefer that to assuming you're a
randomly-selected population member.
