---
title: "nateeag.com"
meta_content: Things Nate Eagleson read in 2020 AD.
template: "essay.html.tmpl"
---

Here is the list of notable things I read in 2020.

* _Artemis_, Andrew Weir - finished 2019-01, day unknown

* _Permanent Record_, Edward Snowden - finished 2019-02-11 23:55 EST

* _Adorning The Dark_, Andrew Peterson - finished somewhere between 2020-01-01
  and 2020-04-01. I feel like probably January, but not sure.

* _All The Crooked Saints_, Maggie Stiefvater - finished 2020-03-02 00:33 EST

* _Redwall_, Brian Jacques (read-aloud for James - he loved it, cheered during
  the final battle, and immediately suggested rereading it) - finished
  2020-03-19 8:35 PM EDT

* [_Message Contains No Recognizable
  Symbols_](https://www.ssec.wisc.edu/~billh/g/mcnrs.html), part 1. It's not
  great writing, and I don't believe in software superintelligence, but it does
  a decent job of capturing in fictional form what it might be like to be a
  witness to the birth of a unFriendly superintelligence. I read this ages ago
  but had it come to mind and dug it up 2020-04-27.

* [_How To Invent Everything_](https://www.howtoinventeverything.com/about),
  Ryan North. Started this around my birthday or Christmas 2019, finally
  finished it up 2020-06-21 @ 11:17 AM EDT. A good installment in the
  bootstrapping civilization genre, though still not quite the volume I wish
  existed (it had a bit more practical detail than _The Knowledge_ in some
  places, but less in others, and also perpetuated a [likely false narrative
  around the origins of
  vibrators](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20181107-the-history-of-the-vibrator),
  so the book's rigor is not to be fully trusted).

* _The Wind In The Willows_, by Kenneth Grahame. Read it aloud to James over
  the course of the summer. I had read it several times myself over the years.
  He quite liked it, and while he didn't get all the subtleties, he did
  appreciate what a good friend Ratty was being for Mole in the chapter "Dulce
  Domum". I think we started somewhere in May, and finished in early August,
  but that's a guess.

* _Going Postal_, by Terry Pratchett. My sister sent this to me as an impromptu
  gift, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Finished it on 2020-08-20 @ 10:55 PM
  Eastern.

* _Making Money_, by Terry Pratchett. The sequel to _Going Postal_. Hannah gave
  it to me for my birthday, and I read it within a few days of receiving it.

* [_The Man Higher
  Up_](https://americanliterature.com/author/o-henry/short-story/the-man-higher-up
  ), a fun little O. Henry short story. Finished 2020-08-24 23:08:10 EDT, if I
  read my unclear note correctly.

* Nonviolent Communication, by Marshall Rosenberg. Finished 2020-09-03 at 1:34
  AM Eastern. It is full of amazingly straightforward ideas I would never have
  gotten to on my own, and which seem eminently straightforward but are
  brutally difficult to put into practice. My few successful attempts to apply
  it so far suggest it really does work, though. Strongly, strongly recommend
  reading for all homo sapiens (except Jesus, I suppose, who I believe already
  understands all this better than the author).

* _Two Arms And A Head_, a book-length suicide note by a man who became
  paraplegic in a motorcycle accident. For many it would be a deeply, deeply
  disturbing read, and I certainly did not enjoy it. While it is wrongheaded in
  many ways, it does offer insight into how much suffering sudden paraplegia
  can bring to a person, and I am grateful to the poor author for helping me
  empathize with a category of people I had not devoted enough thought to.
  Reading it has also renewed my gratitude for having a body that largely
  works, something I take far too much for granted.

* _The Reason For God_, a book about why it's reasonable to believe in Jesus,
  by Timothy Keller. It was a good read - it's clearly aimed at curious
  seekers, but I found it helpful as a believer who experiences doubt often.
  I'm not sure when I started it - I think sometime in August 2020. I finished
  it 2020-11-21 @ 11:10 PM.
