---
title: "nateeag.com"
meta_content: Things Nate Eagleson read in 2022 AD.
template: "essay.html.tmpl"
---

Here is the list of notable things I read in 2022.

* _Shadows In Flight_, by Orson Scott Card. The final book in the
  Ender's-Game-adjacent "Bean books". It felt like something of a coda, with a
  much less intricate plot than the previous books, and it was rather shorter,
  but it was a fitting ending, well-made. Started on the evening of January
  4th, I think, and finished around 12:30 AM January 6th.

* _Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrel_, by Susanna Clarke. An Austenian comedy of
  manners and character study, an alternate history of England during the
  Napoleonic wars, a fantasy, and a meditation on the eternal conflict between
  reductionists and mystics. A strong recommendation. I started it in early
  January and finished it January 23rd around 2:40 PM Eastern.

* _The Night Circus_, by Erin Morgenstern. A lovely novel about a battle of
  magician's teaching methodologies, with a very strong aesthetic. I did think
  the last chapter took a turn into an irrelevant cheap gag I would have
  preferred the story without, but overall still an interesting and enjoyable
  read. I read it over the course of a week or two in March.

* _What Is A Girl Worth_, by Rachel denHollander. The story of how she was
  abused by Larry Nassar and how she eventually came to speak out publicly
  against him. I cried a number of times reading this, and strongly recommend
  reading it. Read in April 2022, IIRC.

* _The Self Does Not Die_, by a few different authors. Argues that various
  reasonably well-attested veridical observations by near-death experiencers
  show that human consciousness survives beyond death. I found some of the
  stories fairly convincing (particularly the "sticky notes" cardiac surgery
  patient and the OCD number-memorizing unconscious patient who accurately
  reported the serial number from the top of a breathing machine that was
  several feet taller than her bed), but I don't believe any of them are
  completely inexplicable from a reductionist perspective (and arguing that
  they are puts a little more confidence in our understanding of the human
  brain than I'm quite ready to grant, I think). I found the wandering into
  psychic phenomenon towards the end of the book very unconvincing. An
  interesting read, at any rate. Read between 2022-01-30 (order arrival date)
  and 2022-04-22 (date I explicitly noted to myself that I'd finished it).

* _After_, by Bruce Greyson. A readable and interesting survey of Greyson's
   years as a near-death experience researcher, including the story of how he
   became interested in it himself (personal experience of an unconscious
   patient telling him what she witnessed about himself). Read between
   2022-02-07 (delivery date) and 2022-04-24 (date I noted to myself that I'd
   finished it).

* _Imagine Heaven_, by John Burke. A straight-up evangelical Christian take on
  NDEs. I did not find it fully persuasive, and it punts on the hard questions
  (non-standard NDEs, visions of hellscapes not compatible with Christianity,
  etc), but it wasn't a terrible read. Given to me by a generous person from a
  church small group I'm currently attending.
