{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh15840\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Nate Eagleson\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 305 Laurel Drive\
Hershey, PA 17033\
717-903-3948\
Nate4D@gmail.com\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Job Skills\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 I love writing software. I do it in my free time, for fun and to become a better programmer. I have a large list of software projects I'd like to tackle someday, and it keeps growing, as I think of tools I wish I had.\
\
Between college, full-time jobs, freelance work, and personal projects, I've written everything from a wireframe 3D engine in C++ to a Tetris clone in JavaScript to enterprise Java apps to Python-based Web 2.0 systems.\
\
I've programmed in Python, PHP, Java, Pascal, LISP, Scheme, SQL, JavaScript, C++, C, AppleScript, Bash, and Objective-C. I've also worked a lot with HTML, CSS, and XML (but list them separately as they are not programming languages). I've developed on a range of platforms, including Mac OS X, Windows XP, Solaris, FreeBSD, and several Linux distributions.\
\
If something happens that no one understands and you ask me to analyze it, I will keep working on it until either I figure it out or you ask me to stop. One of the most satisfying moments of my career was learning PostScript on the fly to fix an emergency-level bug that was happening in production. Although I'd used PostScript in college, I knew very little about it, and when I found myself downloading the PostScript reference manual, I thought "Learning new languages to solve a bug - now THIS is fun."\
\
Although I like to spend my time programming, I get along well with people, communicate well, and understand why that matters. We write software for people, and if you don't talk to them regularly, the odds of making tools they want to use are infinitesimally small.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Employment
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs22 \cf0 \
2007 - 2009 - codeninjaz.net, inc
\b0 \
I cofounded codeninjaz.net, inc to make a better system for creating website widgets. As one of two founders, I wore several different hats at once, acting as secretary, treasurer, system administrator (for FreeBSD servers), development tools programmer, database administrator (MySQL 5), front-end developer, back-end developer (using Python and web.py), and JavaScript developer.\
\
As development tools programmer, I wrote a piece of software that hid the details of project setup and configuration behind a simple interface - specify the project you wanted to work on, and it checked out all the relevant code from version control and set up a fully-functional development sandbox for the project. It also provided a simple mechanism to let developers customize and update the project's configuration when necessary.\
\
When doing front-end development (using Cheetah to template HTML, JavaScript, and CSS), I designed user interfaces to be simple and straightforward, then made them work correctly in IE 6+, Safari 3, Firefox 2+, and Opera 9+.\
\
My partner and I also developed an object-oriented JavaScript animation/effects/drag-and-drop library custom-suited to our needs - when we first began working on the project, the major JS frameworks didn't fit our needs, so we created one that did.\
\

\b 2005 - 2007 - Rite Aid\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 I started as an Entry Level Systems Engineer, working on NexGen, the in-pharmacy app for tracking prescriptions. NexGen is a Java Swing app of ~400,000 LOC (including jUnit test suites) that uses Microsoft SQL Server for data persistence, and interacts with a central mainframe system via XML for inter-store communications. The Castor framework is used for handling XML, and Elixir Reports is used for rendering and printing reports.\
\
I began doing bug triage, writing bug fixes, helping with code review, implementing new modules, writing test suites, and doing manual testing. I eventually took over maintenance and new development for our reports and XSDs. I also helped resolve production support issues that tech support got stuck on.\
\
I was promoted to Systems Engineer in early 2007, due to single-handedly analyzing and fixing a nasty production emergency rapidly, and being a major part of a successful optimization effort. Shortly after this promotion, I started taking care of our build process.\
\
My last major project at Rite Aid was creating a Java app for printing customized prescription labels. As the sole developer, I handled the entire engineering process - requirements gathering, UI design, architecture, implementation, documentation, and releasing and explaining the final product to its users. Shortly after finishing that project, I left Rite Aid to pursue other interests, including founding the previously-mentioned startup.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Education
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
I graduated from Penn State Harrisburg in 2005 with a B.S. in Computer Science, after having done my first two years of study at Harrisburg Area Community College. My cumulative GPA from the two schools was 3.62.\
\
I was homeschooled from the age of four through high school, and was always strongly encouraged to read and study for fun as well as for education - my parents gave me a strong sense of curiosity, which persists to this day. Reading remains one of my favorite things to do with my free time, alongside programming and playing music.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 References available upon request.}