{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh17480\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 Nate Eagleson\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 nate@nateeag.com\
http://www.nateeag.com\
201A West Cherry Street\
Palmyra, PA 17078\
717-903-3948\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Qualifications\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 I make tools that help real people solve actual problems.\
\
I do that by targeting problems people tell me about - solving hypothetical problems rarely yields great tools. When I focus on an actual person's problem, listen closely to what he tells me, and have him try the tools as I make them, useful tools result.\
\
I usually write Web software using the LAMP stack, but I have written several desktop and command-line programs, and even a Tetris clone.\
\
I care intensely about my tools, so Mac OS X is my main desktop OS, as it is a beautiful, stable Unix variant. However, I have written software on Mac OS X, FreeBSD, CentOS, Ubuntu, Solaris, and Windows XP. As long as I have Emacs and a bash prompt (which Windows can run), I am content.\
\
Python is my favorite language, but I have written software with PHP, SQL (MySQL/SQL Server/SQLite), JavaScript, bash, Java, C, C++, Emacs Lisp, Scheme, Pascal, and Objective-C. I have played with other languages and can pick up the basics of a new one in a few hours.\
\
I love learning new technology, especially on the fly. I once had to inhale the PostScript manual for an emergency bug fix, which made for an exciting two days.\
\
Writing software is only rarely a solo activity. I strive to care for, listen to, and learn from those involved, be they programmers, users, or janitors.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Employment
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs22 \cf0 \
2011 - 2012 - Exponential Gain, LLC\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 2x30.com (https://www.2x30.com) is a website that helps people work together to form good habits and break bad ones.\
\
The backend is Ubuntu Linux, PHP 5.3 (with Kohana 3.1), Apache 2, MySQL 5, and Apache Solr, with Twig for templating. The frontend is XHTML/CSS, with jQuery for AJAX. Version control and code review are done with Git and Gerrit. Pivotal Tracker is used for project management, and support is run with Tender App.\
\
I was lead developer, primary code reviewer, sysadmin, and all-around problem solver for initial development and launch.\
\
As lead developer, I recruited developers, did tech interviews, chose our tech stack, wrote code, and listened carefully to my team. I ran the daily scrum via Skype, asking each developer what he had done since yesterday, what obstacles he had encountered, and what he was planning to do today. If he had unsolved problems, I helped solve them.\
\
As sysadmin, I automated tasks when it saved time and documented them on the dev wiki when it did not.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 2009 - current - Freelance
\b0 \
I offer freelance software development and support services. Two project summaries follow.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li560\fi-180\ql\qnatural
\cf0 * Bright Ideas Press (http://brightideaspress.com/) publishes curriculum for homeschooling families. Their Illuminations curriculum is popular for its breadth, but customers said it was hard to use just a few subjects or to customize the study plans. Using wxPython and Git, I wrote an OS X/Windows app that provides a simple, friendly interface for planning a student's academic year with Illuminations.\
\
* The CHAP convention (http://www.chaponline.com/) is an annual convention for homeschooling parents with around six thousand attendees. Walk-in attendees registered with a convoluted paper form, resulting in a long, slow line. Since CHAP had an online registration system, I set up online registration terminals on site, accelerating the walk-in registration process immensely. The terminals ran Webconverger, a web-only Linux distribution, modified to meet CHAP's needs.
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
2007 - 2009 - codeninjaz.net, inc
\b0 \
I co-founded codeninjaz.net, inc to build a better way to make website widgets.\
\
Our backend was FreeBSD, lighttpd, MySQL, and Python (using web.py, with Cheetah for templating). Our frontend was XHTML/CSS, using JS and AJAX where they made sense. We used Eventum for project management and issue tracking, and Subversion for version control (I have avoided svn ever since - ask me why).\
\
As one of two founders, I acted as secretary, treasurer, frontend/backend developer, DB admin, and sysadmin.\
\
When doing frontend development (using Cheetah to template HTML, JavaScript, and CSS), I made simple, straightforward user interfaces that worked in IE 6-7, Safari 3-4, Firefox 2-3, and Opera 9. When doing backend work, I analyzed the feature I was implementing, then updated our URL scheme, DB schema, data models, and controllers as needed.\
\
As sysadmin, I wrote a command-line program to manage developer sandboxes. Given a project name, the script checked it out from version control and set up a fully-functional site image.\
\

\b 2005 - 2007 - Rite Aid\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 NexGen is Rite Aid's in-store prescription management software, a Java Swing app of about 400,000 LOC (including jUnit tests).\
\
NexGen uses SQL Server for store-specific data. For inter-store communications it speaks to a central mainframe in XML using the Castor framework. NexGen renders and prints documents with Elixir Reports. The team does version control with CVS and manages builds with Ant.\
\
I began working on NexGen as an Entry Level Systems Engineer. I triaged bugs, fixed bugs, reviewed code, added features, wrote test suites, tested manually, and answered high-level tech support calls. I later took ownership of all printed reports and the XSDs for mainframe/NexGen communications.\
\
I was promoted to Systems Engineer in 2007, due to analyzing and fixing an ugly production emergency rapidly. As an SE, I took over managing our build process, and created a Java app for printing custom prescription labels. As the sole developer, I handled the entire engineering process - requirements gathering, UI design, spec writing, architecture, implementation, documentation, and release.
\b\fs24 \
Education
\b0 \

\fs22 \
I graduated from Penn State Harrisburg in 2005 with a B.S. in Computer Science and a cumulative GPA of 3.62.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Other Interests
\b0\fs22 \
\
I design digital instruments for live performance, using Clavia's magnificent Nord G2X. Audio synthesis for live performance combines analysis, music, and user interface design in a way I find extremely compelling, and it has been known to keep me up all night.\
\
I read voraciously. When I find a well-written novel, I read it in an evening, unless it is massive. I also love digging into technical volumes like Code Complete, chewing carefully on each idea the authors present.}