---
title: What I Believe
meta_content: My core beliefs.
template: essay.html.tmpl
---

I believe the Maker of the universe loves me so much that He died to save me
from myself.

That belief is the heart of who I am.

I believe He has revealed Himself to man at various times and in various ways,
most notably by inspiring the various authors of [the Hebrew
Tanakh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanakh), by becoming the man [Jesus
Christ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus), and by inspiring the early
Christians to write [the New
Testament](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Testament).

If pressed for the details of my theology, I refer to the [Apostles'
Creed](https://www.crcna.org/welcome/beliefs/creeds/apostles-creed) and the
[Nicene Creed](https://www.crcna.org/welcome/beliefs/creeds/nicene-creed) as
summarizing it better than I can.

I believe the
[Bible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bible#Development_of_the_Christian_canons)
is the Word of God, written by humans who were [inspired by the Holy
Spirit](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=2Tim+3%3A16&version=NKJV).
I believe it is true, beautiful, wise, trustworthy, and powerful.

I am not convinced it is [completely error-free in every possible
respect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblical_inerrancy), and I know of no
passage where it claims to be. Where it presents history I believe that history
is true, but that does not mean every detail must be perfectly correct. Matthew
and Luke disagree whether the centurion [came to Jesus
himself](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+8%3A5-13&version=NKJV)
or [sent a
messenger](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke+7%3A1-10&version=NKJV),
but the story's events are not massively changed by that discrepancy, nor is it
the sort of difference that makes historians discard documents as
untrustworthy. It is exactly the sort of divergence you might expect between an
account written by an eyewitness and an account written by someone interviewing
eyewitnesses.

As that implies, I am not a [Biblical
literalist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblical_literalism). A lifetime of
reading the Bible and many other texts has made it clear to me that the Bible
contains many non-literal genres, ranging from parables to aphorisms to poems.
Where it does contain historical accounts, they were not written as modern
academic historical treatises, and reading them as if they were seems unwise
and obtuse.

Fathering young children has taught me that trying to make my children
understand something as thoroughly as I do usually harms their understanding
rather than helping it.

I imagine God handles similar tradeoffs when communicating with us, and I
believe that surfaces from time to time in Scripture. If you hold the entire
universe in your mind, you likely know a lot of things that are hard (perhaps
impossible) for a tiny mind to hold.
